Edit Telegraf config in the UI (#2132)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.0/telegraf-configs/update.md

- [Use the InfluxDB UI](#use-the-influxdb-ui)
- [Use the `influx` CLI](#use-the-influx-cli)

{{% note %}}

> Telegraf doesn't detect changes to remote configurations. If you edit a remote configuration, you must re-run it for your changes to take affect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Telegraf doesn't detect changes to remote configurations. If you edit a remote configuration, you must restart Telegraf or send it a SIGHUP command for your changes to take effect.
```

> Telegraf doesn't detect changes to remote configurations. If you edit a remote configuration, you must restart Telegraf or send it a SIGHUP command for your changes to take effect.

Author: this was Russ's suggestion.

- [Customize an existing Telegraf configuration](#customize-an-existing-telegraf-configuration)

## Use the InfluxDB UI

1. In the navigation menu on the left, select **Data** (**Load Data**) > **Telegraf**.

    {{< nav-icon "load data" >}}

2. To update the name or description:
  - Hover over the configuration you want to edit and click **{{< icon "pencil" >}}**
   to update the name or description.
  - Press **Return** or click out of the editable field to save your changes.
4. To edit the configuration file:
  - Click the name of the configuration.
  - Add or update [Telegraf plugin settings](/telegraf/latest/plugins/) in the window that appears.
  {{% note %}}
  The text editor window doesn't detect if any plugins or settings are misconfigured. Any errors in your configuration that may cause Telegraf to fail will be displayed when you run Telegraf in the CLI.
  {{% /note %}}
  - Click **Save Changes** and then **Save** again to confirm.
5. Run your updated Telegraf configuration using the `-config` flag. To find the exact command for your configuration file, click **Setup Instructions** from the **Telegraf** page.

> 

Reviewer 2: Need this note after (not tied to any specific step). It applies to updating your Telegraf config in the UI as a whole.

Note: Once you have updated your Telegraf configuration in the Influx UI, you must re-run the configuration. Telegraf currently does not detect changes made to a remote configuration.

Author: Isn't this redundant with step 5 above? It's in the steps that in order to update in the UI, the final step is to run the configuration. I'm not sure it's necessary to call it out twice.

Author: (ended up adding it at the top after discussing further with sam)

Reviewer 3: this phrasing is a little strange: `Any errors in your configuration that may cause Telegraf to fail will be displayed when you run Telegraf in the CLI.`  I would propose:
`Any errors in your configuration that may cause Telegraf to fail when it is restarted with the modified configuration.`

For the most part, people run telegraf as a system service (either on Windows or Linux machines).  They do not tend to run it via a terminal window (we do that a lot for demos and when Telegraf is started it reports its status to standard out).  So, perhaps this is an opportunity to highlight where to check on the status of Telegraf via the system service logs for Linux and Windows?  I would assume that we already have this documented somewhere.  Also, it might be valuable to suggest how to "test" or "validate" the changes by attempting to manually start a Telegraf instance using this new config??  Think of hundreds of Telegraf agents which need to be restarted once the config changes....you really don't want to go through that process and then realize at the end that there was an error and have to repeat the entire process again.

Reviewer: I would remove this entire section to be honest. There's really no reason to `Edit the config by downloading` anymore. If someone wanted to test their changes locally, it's probably easier to download, make the changes, then just copy and paste them back through the UI.

Maybe rename this section `Download and verify your configuration locally` or something?

Author: I renamed the section per Russ's suggestion -- otherwise, we don't have this download button documented anywhere.

   to update the name or description.
3. Press **Return** or click out of the editable field to save your changes.

### Edit the configuration file directly in the UI

1. In the navigation menu on the left, select **Data** (**Load Data**) > **Telegraf**.

    {{< nav-icon "load data" >}}

2. To edit the configuration file:
  - Click the name of the configuration.
  - Add or update [Telegraf plugin settings](/telegraf/latest/plugins/) in the window that appears.
  {{% note %}}

>   The text editor window doesn't detect if any plugins or settings are misconfigured. Any errors in your configuration that may cause Telegraf to fail will be displayed when you run Telegraf in the CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The text editor window doesn't detect if any plugins or settings are misconfigured. Any errors in your configuration that may cause Telegraf to fail will be displayed when you start Telegraf.
```

  {{% /note %}}
  - Click **Save Changes** and then **Save** again to confirm.

> 3. In order for your changes to take affect, you must re-run your updated Telegraf configuration using the `-config` flag. To find the exact command for your configuration file, click **Setup Instructions** from the **Telegraf** page.

Reviewer 3: In order for your changes to take affect, you must re-start each Telegraf agent that you wish to use the modified configuration using the `-config` flag.

Reviewer: see my comment on line 50. 

Also, i think it's `take effect` not `affect`

### Download and verify the configuration file

1. In the navigation menu on the left, select **Data** (**Load Data**) > **Telegraf**.

    {{< nav-icon "load data" >}}

2. Click the **name** of the Telegraf configuration to customize.
3. Click **Download Config** to download the Telegraf configuration file to your
   local machine.
4. Review the configuration file. Add or update [Telegraf plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins/) settings and
   save your changes.
5. [Use the `influx telegrafs update` command](#use-the-influx-cli) to upload your
   modified Telegraf configuration to InfluxDB and replace the existing configuration.

> 6. 3. In order for your changes to take affect, you must re-run your updated Telegraf configuration using the `-config` flag. To find the exact command for your configuration file, click **Setup Instructions** from the **Telegraf** page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. To apply the updated configuration, restart Telegraf. To find the exact command to start Telegraf, click **Setup Instructions** on the **Telegraf** page.
```

  -d "This is a description for an example Telegraf configuration."
  -f /path/to/telegraf.conf
```

> ## Customize an existing Telegraf configuration

Reviewer 2: I think we can still keep this section but rename the heading (something like "Download your existing Telegraf configuration"?? you can probably come up with something better). Since you can still download your config and there might be a reason people want to download it, edit it on their local machine, and re-upload it back up.

Author: We had this as kind of a workaround because there was no UI option. It says elsewhere that you can download the config so I don't think we need this set of steps anymore.
